---
date: 2021-12-22
draft: false
thumbnail: /post-images/ebs.png
title: AWS - EBS
extract: Notes for EBS
categories:
    - AWS
tags:
    - blog
    - AWS
--- 


### Table of Contents

- [What is EBS?](#what-is-ebs)
- [Volumes](#volumes)
- [Snapshots](#snapshots)
  - [General](#general)
  - [Consistent Snapshots](#consistent-snapshots)
  - [Snapshot encryption](#snapshot-encryption)
  - [Copying snapshots](#copying-snapshots)
- [Volume Types](#volume-types)
  - [General Purpose SSD (gp2 and gp3)](#general-purpose-ssd-gp2-and-gp3)
  - [Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1 and io2)](#provisioned-iops-ssd-io1-and-io2)
  - [Throughput Optimized HDD (st1)](#throughput-optimized-hdd-st1)
  - [Cold HDD volumes (sc1)](#cold-hdd-volumes-sc1)
- [EBS Encryption](#ebs-encryption)
  - [Encrypt an Unencrypted Volume](#encrypt-an-unencrypted-volume)
- [Amazon EFS/FSx](#amazon-efsfsx)
- [AMIs: EBS vs Instance Stores](#amis-ebs-vs-instance-stores)
  - [What is an AMI](#what-is-an-ami)
  - [Instance Store](#instance-store)
  - [EBS Volumes](#ebs-volumes)




## What is [EBS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AmazonEBS.html)?
Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) provides block level storage volumes for use with EC2 instances. EBS volumes behave like raw, unformatted block devices. EBS volumes that are attached to an instance are exposed as storage volumes that persist independently from the life of the instance. You can create a file system on top of these volumes, or use them in any way you would use a block device (such as a hard drive). You can dynamically change the configuration of a volume attached to an instance.

Amazon EBS should be used for data that must be quickly accessible and requires long-term persistence. EBS volumes are particularly well-suited for use as the primary storage for file systems, databases, or for any applications that require fine granular updates and access to raw, unformatted, block-level storage. Amazon EBS is well suited to both database-style applications that rely on random reads and writes, and to throughput-intensive applications that perform long, continuous reads and writes.

## Volumes

Volumes are virtual hard disks where essential software can be installed that'll then be run on our EC2 instance. You need a minimum of 1 volume per instance which comes with the EC2 instance that you launched which is called **root device volume**. When you launch an instance, the root device volume contains the image used to boot the instance. On this volume is your OS is installed when you launch an instance. 

Some facts:
    - You create an EBS volume in a specific Availability Zone, and then attach it to an instance in that same Availability Zone. 
    - Your EBS volumes will ALWAYS be in the same AZ as the EC2 instance to which it is attached
    - EBS volumes can be resized on the fly
    - You can change volume types on the fly as well! 

## Snapshots

Snapshots are literally snaps of point in time of a volume where time is the time at which you initiated the snap.  Your snapshots are automatically replicated in the AZ where you created the volume. To make a volume available outside of the Availability Zone, you can create a snapshot (backup) and restore that snapshot to a new volume anywhere in that Region. You can copy snapshots to other Regions and then restore them to new volumes there, making it easier to leverage multiple AWS Regions for geographical expansion, data center migration, and disaster recovery.

You can create point-in-time snapshots of EBS volumes, which are persisted to Amazon S3. Snapshots protect data for long-term durability, and they can be used as the starting point for new EBS volumes. The same snapshot can be used to instantiate as many volumes as you wish. These snapshots can be copied across AWS Regions.Here're some facts about snapshots:

### General

Snapshots are saved in S3. Snapshots are incremental, meaning only the data that has changed since your last snapshot is moved to S3. This saves on space and time. First snapshots are a bit time consuming since there're no previous point-in-time copies

### Consistent Snapshots

For consistent snapshots, it is recommended to stop the instance and then take a snapshot. That's because snapshots only capture data that has been written to the EBS volume which might exclude any data that has been locally cached. 

### Snapshot encryption

Snapshots of encrypted EBS volumes are encrypted as well

### Copying snapshots

Snapshots can be shared but only in the region where they're created. For cross region sharing, you need to copy them to the destination first. If say for example, you're asked to copy over an EC2 instance to a new region, you:
- take a snapshot in region-1
- create a copy of the snapshot in region-1
- copy it to region-2
- provision an instance using that snapshot in region-2

This is similar to copying your hard-disk (volume) from one region to another and booting an instance using that copied hard disk. You also have the option of encrypting the snapshot as you copy it over to the new region.

Let's have a look at a demo where we:
- Create an EC2 instance in US-East-1 (and the steps below are performed in the same region until we switch regions)
- Attach another volume to it, gp3, in addition to our root volume which is gp2
- Modify one of the volumes from gp3 to cold
- Detach the volume and delete it from our EC2 instance
- Create a snapshot of our root volume
- Copy snapshot and provide new destination region
- Switch region to US-West-2
- Go to EC2 and create AMI from that snapshot

<!-- copy and paste. Modify height and width if desired. -->
<iframe class="embeddedObject shadow resizable" name="embedded_content" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" type="text/html" 
        style="overflow:hidden;" src="https://www.screencast.com/users/IqbalKhan8502/folders/Capture/media/0b35266c-ed08-4b86-81fc-43249c7ac171/embed" height="764" width="1438" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Volume Types
Amazon EBS provides the following volume types: General Purpose SSD, Provisioned IOPS SSD, Throughput Optimized HDD, and Cold HDD. 

**Side Note**: *IOPS = speed, Throughput = amount*

### General Purpose SSD (gp2 and gp3)

General purpose volumes  balance price and performance for a wide variety of transactional workloads. These volumes are ideal for use cases such as boot volumes, medium-size single instance databases, and development and test environments.

Use cases include:

- GP2:
    - Good for **boot volumes** or development and test applications that are not latency sensitive

-GP3:
    - Good for high performance at a low cost (MySQL, Cassandra, Virtual desktop, hadoop etc)

### Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1 and io2)
IOPS SSD volumes are designed to meet the needs of I/O-intensive workloads that are sensitive to storage performance and consistency. They provide a consistent IOPS rate that you specify when you create the volume. This enables you to predictably scale to tens of thousands of IOPS per instance. Additionally, io2 volumes provide the highest levels of volume durability.

Use cases include:

- io1:
    - Designed for I/O intensive apps, large DBs and latency sentisive workloads
    - **Use this if you need high performance AND more than 16,000 IOPS**

- io2:
    - Higher durability and more IOPS than io1

### Throughput Optimized HDD (st1)
These volumes provide low-cost magnetic storage that defines performance in terms of throughput rather than IOPS. These volumes are ideal for large, sequential workloads such as Amazon EMR, ETL, data warehouses, and log processing.

- st1:
    - Low cost HDD volume
    - Used for frequently accessed throughput intensive workloads
    - Big data, data warehouse, ETL, log processing etc
    - **CANNOT BE A BOOT VOLUME!**

### Cold HDD volumes (sc1) 

These volumes provide low-cost magnetic storage that defines performance in terms of throughput rather than IOPS. These volumes are ideal for large, sequential, cold-data workloads. If you require infrequent access to your data and are looking to save costs, these volumes provides inexpensive block storage.

- sc1:
    - Cheapest! 
    - Good for colder data requiring fewer scans per day. 
    - Good for apps that need the lowest cost and performance is not a factor
    - **CANNOT BE A BOOT VOLUME!**

## EBS Encryption

With Amazon EBS encryption, you aren't required to build, maintain, and secure your own key management infrastructure. Amazon EBS encryption uses AWS KMS keys when creating encrypted volumes and snapshots. Encryption operations occur on the servers that host EC2 instances, ensuring the security of both data-at-rest and data-in-transit between an instance and its attached EBS storage. All snapshots created from encrypted volumes are also encrypted. All volumes created from the snapshot are also encrypted. You can attach both encrypted and unencrypted volumes to an instance simultaneously. You can encrypt both the boot and data volumes of an EC2 instance. EBS encrypts your volume with a data key using AES-256 algorithm. 

### Encrypt an Unencrypted Volume

- Create a snapshot of the unencrypted root device volume
- Create a copy of the snapshot and select encrypt option
- Create an AMI from the encrypted snapshot
- Use that AMI to launch new encrypted instances

<!-- copy and paste. Modify height and width if desired. -->
<iframe class="embeddedObject shadow resizable" name="embedded_content" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" type="text/html" 
        style="overflow:hidden;" src="https://www.screencast.com/users/IqbalKhan8502/folders/Capture/media/da37e7ef-9a4d-4496-89d1-b8fb310dfb9b/embed" height="760" width="1438" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Amazon EFS/FSx

There's also another file system offerred by AWS called Amazon Elastic File System or EFS. EFS is used for networked file systems where multiple EC2s can connect to the same file system. If it's a Windows OS use-case, we can also use FSx. 

## AMIs: EBS vs Instance Stores

### What is an AMI
AMI is the machine image that provides information required to launch an instance. In the demos above, we've been choosing Amazon Linux 2 AMIs. All AMIs are categorized as either backed by EBS or instance stores. 

In the case of EBS, the root device for an instance launched from the AMI is an EBS volume created from EBS snapshot. In the case of instance store, the root device for the instance is an instance store volume created from a template stored in S3. 

### Instance Store
- Instance store volumes are also called **ephemeral storage**.
- Instance store volumes cannot be stopped.
- If the underlying host fails, all data is lost
- You can however reboot the instance without losing data
- If you delete the instance, you will lose the instance store volume

### EBS Volumes
- Cannot be stopped
- You will not lose your data if the instance fails
- You can reboot without losing your data
- By default, root device volume will be deleted on instance's termination. However, you can specify not to delete root device volume upon termination
