---
date: 2021-12-30
draft: false
thumbnail: /post-images/aws-route53.png
title: AWS - Route 53
extract: Notes for Route 53
categories:
    - AWS
tags:
    - blog
    - AWS
--- 


### Table of Contents

- [What is Route53?](#what-is-route53)
  - [DNS](#dns)
  - [Top Level Domain](#top-level-domain)
  - [CNAME](#cname)
  - [SOA](#soa)
  - [NS records](#ns-records)
  - [A Records](#a-records)
  - [Alias Records](#alias-records)




## What is [Route53](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/Welcome.html)?
Amazon Route 53 is a highly available and scalable Domain Name System (DNS) web service. You can use Route 53 to perform three main functions in any combination: domain registration, DNS routing, and health checking.

### DNS

The Domain Name System (DNS) is the phonebook of the Internet. Humans access information online through domain names, like nytimes.com or espn.com. Web browsers interact through Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. DNS translates domain names to IP addresses so browsers can load Internet resources.

Each device connected to the Internet has a unique IP address which other machines use to find the device. DNS servers eliminate the need for humans to memorize IP addresses such as 192.168.1.1 (in IPv4), or more complex newer alphanumeric IP addresses such as 2400:cb00:2048:1::c629:d7a2 (in IPv6).

The process of DNS resolution involves converting a hostname (such as www.example.com) into a computer-friendly IP address (such as 192.168.1.1). An IP address is given to each device on the Internet, and that address is necessary to find the appropriate Internet device - like a street address is used to find a particular home. When a user wants to load a webpage, a translation must occur between what a user types into their web browser (example.com) and the machine-friendly address necessary to locate the example.com webpage.

### Top Level Domain

Top-level domain (TLD) refers to the last segment of a domain name, or the part that follows immediately after the "dot" symbol.

For example, in the internet address: https://www.google.com, the “.com” portion is the TLD.

TLDs are mainly classified into two categories: generic TLDs and country-specific TLDs.

### CNAME

The ‘canonical name’ (CNAME) record is used in lieu of an A record, when a domain or subdomain is an alias of another domain. All CNAME records must point to a domain, never to an IP address. Imagine a scavenger hunt where each clue points to another clue, and the final clue points to the treasure. A domain with a CNAME record is like a clue that can point you to another clue (another domain with a CNAME record) or to the treasure (a domain with an A record).

For example, suppose blog.example.com has a CNAME record with a value of ‘example.com’ (without the ‘blog’). This means when a DNS server hits the DNS records for blog.example.com, it actually triggers another DNS lookup to example.com, returning example.com’s IP address via its A record. In this case we would say that example.com is the canonical name (or true name) of blog.example.com.

Oftentimes, when sites have subdomains such as blog.example.com or shop.example.com, those subdomains will have CNAME records that point to a root domain (example.com). This way if the IP address of the host changes, only the DNS A record for the root domain needs to be updated and all the CNAME records will follow along with whatever changes are made to the root.

### SOA

The DNS ‘start of authority’ (SOA) record stores important information about a domain or zone such as the email address of the administrator, when the domain was last updated, and how long the server should wait between refreshes.

### NS records

NS stands for ‘nameserver,’ and the nameserver record indicates which DNS server is authoritative for that domain (i.e. which server contains the actual DNS records). Basically, NS records tell the Internet where to go to find out a domain's IP address. A domain often has multiple NS records which can indicate primary and backup nameservers for that domain. Without properly configured NS records, users will be unable to load a website or application.

A nameserver is a type of DNS server. It is the server that stores all DNS records for a domain, including A records, MX records, or CNAME records.

Almost all domains rely on multiple nameservers to increase reliability: if one nameserver goes down or is unavailable, DNS queries can go to another one. Typically there is one primary nameserver and several secondary nameservers, which store exact copies of the DNS records in the primary server. Updating the primary nameserver will trigger an update of the secondary nameservers as well.

### A Records

An A record maps a domain name to the IP address (Version 4) of the computer hosting the domain. An A record uses a domain name to find the IP address of a computer connected to the internet

The A in A record stands for Address. Whenever you visit a web site, send an email, connect to Twitter or Facebook, or do almost anything on the Internet, the address you enter is a series of words connected with dots.

For example, to access the DNSimple website you enter www.dnsimple.com. At our name server, there’s an A record that points to the IP address 208.93.64.253. This means that a request from your browser to www.dnsimple.com is directed to the server with IP address 208.93.64.253.

A Records are the simplest type of DNS records, and one of the primary records used in DNS servers.

You can do a lot with A records, including using multiple A records for the same domain in order to provide redundancy and fallbacks. Additionally, multiple names could point to the same address, in which case each would have its own A record pointing to that same IP address.

### Alias Records

Amazon Route 53 alias records provide a Route 53–specific extension to DNS functionality. Alias records let you route traffic to selected AWS resources, such as CloudFront distributions and Amazon S3 buckets. They also let you route traffic from one record in a hosted zone to another record.
