---
date: 2022-01-02
draft: false
thumbnail: /post-images/sns.png
title: AWS - SNS
extract: Notes for SNS
categories:
    - AWS
tags:
    - blog
    - AWS
--- 


### Table of Contents

- [What is SNS?](#what-is-sns)
- [Settings](#settings)
  - [Topic](#topic)
  - [Topic Type](#topic-type)
  - [Encryption](#encryption)
  - [Access Policy](#access-policy)
  - [Delivery retry policy (HTTP/S)](#delivery-retry-policy-https)
  - [Delivery Status Logging](#delivery-status-logging)
- [Subscriptions](#subscriptions)
  - [Subscription Filter Policy](#subscription-filter-policy)
  - [Redrive policy (DLQ)](#redrive-policy-dlq)
- [SNS Demo](#sns-demo)


## What is [SNS?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/welcome.html)
Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) is a managed service that provides message delivery from publishers to subscribers (also known as producers and consumers). Publishers communicate asynchronously with subscribers by sending messages to a topic, which is a logical access point and communication channel. Clients can subscribe to the SNS topic and receive published messages using a supported endpoint type, such as Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, Amazon SQS, AWS Lambda, HTTP, email, mobile push notifications, and mobile text messages (SMS).

Unline SQS where we were polling for messages (remember we were clicking on poll!), here we push out messages to subscribers. Subscribers need to be available to receive the message. This is called push-based messaging. The publisher sends message to SNS topic and subscribers get notified proactively when there's a message. No action is needed from subscribers' part.

## Settings

### Topic

You'll need to provide a topic name. A topic is a message channel. When you publish a message to a topic, it fans out the message to all subscribed endpoints.

### Topic Type

You can have standard topics or FIFO topics. The type that you choose for your topic is immutable, meaning it can't be changed once the topic is created. FIFO topics are a better fit for use cases that require message ordering and deduplication. Standard topics are better suited for use cases that require higher message publish and delivery throughput rates. Note as well that the different types of topic support different delivery protocols.

### Encryption

Amazon SNS provides in-transit encryption by default. Enabling server-side encryption adds at-rest encryption to your topic.

### Access Policy

This policy defines who can access your topic. By default, only the topic owner can publish or subscribe to the topic. 
You can use an access policy to control who can access your topics and how the topics can be used.

For example, you can let a specific AWS account access a topic, limit subscriptions to the HTTPS protocol, publish to an Amazon SQS queue, allow any AWS resource to publish to a topic, and so on. Sample policy:

```json
{
  "Version": "2008-10-17",
  "Id": "__default_policy_ID",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "__default_statement_ID",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "*"
      },
      "Action": [
        "SNS:Publish",
        "SNS:RemovePermission",
        "SNS:SetTopicAttributes",
        "SNS:DeleteTopic",
        "SNS:ListSubscriptionsByTopic",
        "SNS:GetTopicAttributes",
        "SNS:AddPermission",
        "SNS:Subscribe"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:123456789:testTopic",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "AWS:SourceOwner": "123456789"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Delivery retry policy (HTTP/S)

The policy defines how Amazon SNS retries failed deliveries to HTTP/S endpoints. To modify the default settings, expand this section.

### Delivery Status Logging

These settings configure the logging of message delivery status to CloudWatch Logs.

## Subscriptions

Once your SNS topic is created, you can go ahead and create subscriptions for subscribers to the said topic. To do so, you'll provide the topic ARN:

```bash
arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:123456789:myStandardTopic
```

and then choose a protocol. The protocol could be Kinesis Data Firehose, SQS, Lambda, Email, Email-JSON, HTTP, HTTPS, SMS and Platform application endpoint. In most cases, you'll provide the relevant ARN. You'll also determine these settings for subscriptions:

### Subscription Filter Policy

You can assign filter policies to Amazon SNS subscriptions by specifying attribute names, and adding a list of one or more values to each name. A subscription accepts a message only if the message contains attributes that match those specified in the subscription's filter policy.

### Redrive policy (DLQ)

You can send undeliverable messages to a dead-letter queue. You can assign a redrive policy to Amazon SNS subscriptions by specifying the Amazon SQS queue that captures messages that can't be delivered to subscribers successfully. 

## SNS Demo

Let's look at a demo where we have an SQS queue as a subscriber for our SNS topic. Now, if you create an SNS topic, add a subscription for SQS queue, you also need to edit the access policy in your SQS queue to allow all actions from your SNS topic. That's what we'll do in this demo. Here's the policy I attached to my testQ so that it's able to receive messages from my SNS topic in the same account:

```json
    {
      "Sid": "SNSPolicy",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Service": "sns.amazonaws.com"
      },
      "Action": "sqs:SendMessage",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:sqs:us-east-1:864122064012:testQ",
      "Condition": {
        "ArnEquals": {
          "aws:SourceArn": "arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:864122064012:testTopic"
        }
      }
    }
```

This means that it has the allow effect for sns service where the action allowed for SNS is `sqs:SendMessage` on the resource `arn:aws:sqs:us-east-1:864122064012:testQ`. And only allow the SNS service to send message to sqs if the source arn is: `arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:864122064012:testTopic`. 

<!-- copy and paste. Modify height and width if desired. -->
<iframe class="embeddedObject shadow resizable" name="embedded_content" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" type="text/html" 
        style="overflow:hidden;" src="https://www.screencast.com/users/IqbalKhan8502/folders/Capture/media/4d190a15-b875-4353-83d1-ef50a3a9f163/embed" height="942" width="1912" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>
